Docs: highlights of the 7.7 release (#55266)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/release-notes/highlights-7.7.0.asciidoc

{ref}//transform-apis.html[{transform-cap} APIs].

// end::notable-highlights[]

// tag::notable-highlights[]
[float]
=== Finer memory control for bucket aggregations

> A new setting has been introduced - `search.check_buckets_step_size` - to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We introduced a new `search.check_buckets_step_size` setting to
```

> better control how the coordinating node will allocate memory when aggregating

Reviewer: ```suggestion
better control how the coordinating node allocates memory when aggregating
```

> buckets. The allocation of buckets will now be done in steps, each step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
buckets. The allocation of buckets is now be done in steps, each step
```

> allocating a number of buckets equal to this setting. A parent circuit breaker
> check is performed on allocation, to avoid an OOM failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allocating a number of buckets equal to this setting. To avoid an `OutOfMemory`
error, a parent circuit breaker check is performed on allocation.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

// end::notable-highlights[]

// tag::notable-highlights[]
[float]
=== A new way of searching: asynchronously

> Searches can now be submitted to a new endpoint, `_async_search`, that works
> exactly the same as the `_search` endpoint, except that instead of blocking and
> returning the final response only once it's entirely available, it will pan the
> results as they become available, asynchronously.

Reviewer: Technically, "endpoint" is a more accurate term here but we use "API" throughout our docs.
```suggestion
You can now submit {ref}/async-search-intro.html[long-running searches] using
the new {ref}/async-search.html[`_async_search` API]. The new API accepts the
same parameters and request body as the {ref}/search-search.html[Search API].
However, instead of blocking and returning the final response only when it's 
entirely finished, you can retrieve results from an async search as they become 
available.
```

Author: > Technically, "endpoint" is a more accurate term here but we use "API" throughout our docs.

I've reused the PR phrasing in this case. @jrodewig, if you think this would be strongly dissonant  to the rest of the docs, we can change it. OTOH, this being just the highlights, we could also leave it as is.

The request takes a parameter, `wait_for_completion`, which controls how long
the server will wait until it sends back a response. The first response
contains among others a search unique ID, a response version, an indication if
this response is partial or not, plus the usual metadata (shards involved,
number of hits etc) and potentially results. If the response is not complete

> and final, the client can continue polling for results issuing a new request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and final, the client can continue polling for results, issuing a new request
```

> using the provided search ID; if new results are available, the returned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using the provided search ID. If new results are available, the returned
```

> version is incremented and the new results batch returned. This can go on until
> all the results are fetched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
version is incremented and the new batch of results are returned. This can 
continue until all the results are fetched.
```

> Unless deleted earlier by the user, the asynchronous searches are kept alive
> for a given interval. This defaults to 5 days and can be controlled by another
> request parameter, `keep_alive`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unless deleted earlier by the user, the asynchronous searches are retained
for a specified time period. This defaults to 5 days and can be controlled by 
the `keep_alive` request parameter.
```

> 
> This functionality is offered under the free {xpack} Basic license.
> 

Reviewer: We typically avoid mentioning specific licenses in the docs. This keeps https://www.elastic.co/subscriptions as the universal source of truth.
```suggestion
```

// end::notable-highlights[]

// tag::notable-highlights[]
[float]
=== Password protection for the keystore

> {es} uses a custom on-disk keystore for secure settings such as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{es} uses a custom on-disk {ref}/secure-settings.html[keystore] for secure settings such as
```

passwords and SSL certificates. Up until now, this prevented users with

> command-line access from viewing secure files by listing commands, but nothing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{ref}//elasticsearch-keystore.html[command-line access] from viewing secure files by listing commands, but nothing
```

prevented such users from changing values in the keystore, or removing values
from it. Furthermore, the values were only obfuscated by a hash; no
user-specific secret protected the secure settings.

This new feature changes all of that by adding password-protection to the
keystore. This is not be a breaking change: if a keystore has no password,
there won’t be any new prompts. A user must choose to password-protect their
keystore in order to benefit from the new behavior.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

// end::notable-highlights[]

// tag::notable-highlights[]
[float]
=== A new aggregation: `top_metrics`

> The new `top_metrics` aggregation "selects" a metric from a document according

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new {ref}//search-aggregations-metrics-top-metrics.html[`top_metrics` aggregation] "selects" a metric from a document according
```

> to a criteria on a given, different field. That criteria is currently being the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to a criteria on a given, different field. That criteria is currently the
```

> largest or smallest "sort" value. It is fairly similar to `top_hits` in spirit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
largest or smallest "sort" value. It is fairly similar to `top_hits` in spirit,
```

> but because it is more limited it is able to do its job using less memory and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but because it is more limited, `top_metrics` uses less memory and
```

is often faster.

// end::notable-highlights[]

// tag::notable-highlights[]
[float]
=== Query speed-up for sorted queries on time-based indices

> Sorted queries run on time-based indices and interested in top documents only
> can be optimized by considering that the ranges of (document) timestamps in the
> shards don't overlap. This optimisation will rewrite the shard search requests
> based on the results available already from other shards when it can be
> determined that the query will not yield any result from the current shard;
> i.e. we know in advance that the bottom entry of the (sorted) result set after
> a partial merge is better than the values contained in this current shard.

Reviewer: This one was admittedly a little hard for me to follow. I've made some changes to
try to help, but feel free to ignore if I've gotten something wrong.
```suggestion
We've optimized sorted, top-documents-only queries run on time-based indices.
{es} now considers the ranges of document timestamps in the shards, ensuring
they don't overlap. This optimization rewrites the shard search requests based
on results available already from other shards; i.e. we know the bottom entry of
the sorted results after a partial merge are better than the values contained in
this shard.
```

Author: The rephrasing is not accurate indeed, but the fact that it's not clear to you shows that it's not a great explanation. I've pushed another attempt, hopefully a bit clearer.

Reviewer: The rephrase is much easier to read. Thanks, @bpintea.

// end::notable-highlights[]

// tag::notable-highlights[]
[float]
=== A new aggregation: `boxplot`

> The interquartile range is a common robust measure of statistical dispersion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interquartile_range[interquartile range (IQR)] is a common robust measure of statistical dispersion.
```

Compared to the standard deviation, the IQR is less sensitive to outliers in
the data, with a breakdown point of 0.25. Along with the median, it is often
used in creating a box plot, a simple yet common way to summarize data and
identify potential outliers.

> The new `boxplot` aggregation calculates min, max, medium, the first and the
> third quartiles of a given data set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The new `boxplot` aggregation calculates the min, max, and medium as well as the
first and third quartiles of a given data set.
```

// end::notable-highlights[]

// tag::notable-highlights[]
[float]
=== AArch64 support

> {es} now provides aarch64 packaging, including bundling an aarch64 JDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{es} now provides AArch64 packaging, including bundling an AArch64 JDK
```
